# Week 1 - Map UX Research Types to the SDLC

The Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) begins with Requirements Analysis, where users’ and system needs are collected, refined, and agreed upon. This is an ideal stage for performing Descriptive research. Users can be gathered, individually in interviews or in focus groups, to discuss what they need for the proposed system to include. Also, users can be observed using their current system. From observation, the project manager can determine what the weaknesses of the current system are or any benefits that may be desirable to carry over to the new system. Descriptive research also helps to determine the users’ roles and how they use the system; this early determination makes it easier to narrow down future research within the cycle. For example, perhaps they will only need to perform Experimental tests on business analysts using the system due to the research questions that arose in Descriptive testing.

Once the requirements have been determined, the project manager can then move into the Design phase. At this stage, researchers can perform Relational research. In performing surveys or making observations of different designs, researchers can begin to form correlations between design variables that can be tested in the Development stage of the SDLC.

In the next phases of the cycle (Development, Testing, and Implement/Deploy), I believe that all of the previous research methods can be used, in addition to  Experimental research. Once the system (hopefully in the form of a protoype!) is developed, users can participate in tests that support or deny hypotheses informed by the earlier research.

At the end of the SDLC is the maintenance of the new system, and then, as the system begins to age, evolution into future versions of it. As the system has come full circle, so too has the types of UX research that the project team can perform. In looking to improve the system further, researchers can use Descriptive and Relational methods to observe, interview, and form connections variables present in the system.
